---
layout: post
title: macros
publish: t
type: essay
---

## how do macros help you

i use macros for templates or as a substitute for functions when i couldn't afford calling one.
macros aid in writing embedded languages on top of lisp which is economical because you save yourself a lot of work adding only features you need and keep the rest of lisp.
common sense says that if something has to be useful, it should let you do things you couldn't do before and save a lot of work often.
if it's only useful once in a blue moon, it's usually not worth the effort.
from what i hear, smart hackers use macros all the time.
so i'm going to take a chance and try to understand macros.
that's what this essay is going to be about.
figuring out how to use macros.

## what macros represent

clearly macros are a tool for abstraction.
but abstract what?
functions abstract procedures.
closures abstract procedures with state.
loops abstract repetition.
conditionals abstract choice.
what do macros abstract?
macros abstract what the language doesn't.
macros help create a direct mapping between your ideas and code.
macros let lisp evolve.

## but how can it do so much

in lisp, programs are lists.
macros shine at transforming one list to another.
writing macro definitions is basically, figuring out where each cons cell goes.
if you want to find out how macros do so much, you need to know what kind of list-transformations macro can do.
### reference
macros can do destructuring-bind, which is binding values and variables based on position.
after the macro call, all the arguments including body are lists.
which means you can use all the routines in lisp that take lists as arguments.
if you can treat code as data, then you pass that data as argument to routines at compile time.
imagine the countless data structures a list can emulate and the contents being the source code.